thank you guys I my parents came from
from Tijuana they're here they drove up
and then my my daughter no I won't my my
wife she's so young she looks like she
could be my daughter it's back there
with my son so are you guys so I'll tell
you guys super fast so when I when I got
started I always did
Latino I've always been very inspired by
Mexico and my culture and I've always
been very proud and so when I first
started I came to the to the US and I
went to film school you know I'm from
Mexico City but then I my father thought
it was too dangerous so he moved us to
Tijuana I was good you'd call that so
then I came to LA and I and I started
doing all a lot of stuff very much
inspired by their los matadores and
lucha libre you know all the stuff I
love and all my teachers in school would
look at how my work and they would say
you're you're never gonna get a job if
you keep doing this stuff and you know I
I was I didn't speak English very well
so all I heard was do this get job so I
kept doing that stuff and and eventually
I I didn't know any better
I would go to different studios and I
would present my my work and they would
you know they would always say oh this
stuff is really cool but but we don't
make any shows that would have someone
like you fit in because of the stuff you
draw do you draw any non-latin stuff or
do you write any long latin stuff and I
would say that that's who I am that's
the only stuff I do and so literally
people would tell me you know if
scooby-doo ever goes to Mexico we know
who to call you know and if the Rugrats
ever get stuck in Oaxaca you're gonna be
the guy though in that episode and at
one point a producer who was not let you
know said to me you know Jorge I'm not
gonna hire you I really like your stuff
but I'm not gonna hire you but I'll give
you a piece of advice the only person
who's gonna hire you to do this stuff is
you so that's the only way you're gonna
get a job you have to be sitting in my
chair you have to be the creator you
have to be the producer you have to be
the guy who made the show and then you
can hire yourself and so that's what I
did and honestly that the math of
Hollywood you know I'm in the animation
world the math of Hollywood is they're
always gonna make stuff they're always
looking to make new cartoons they're
always gonna make new movies they're
always gonna be making content someone's
gonna get that shot if we don't try then
it'll never happen and so every time
someone told me no every time someone
said we can't do this type of stuff I
took it as a no was always a step to a
maybe and then enough maybes turn into
sure why not and that's how I got
started you know I did internet show
then we did a TV show with my wife son
that I want all these enemies the show
got cancelled and at that point you know
most people get their shows canceled
after seven Emmys and they would get the
press and would get bitter again I'm so
naive I thought now we gotta make a
movie
and so you know what's the hardest thing
you can do in an animated kids movie
make a movie that celebrates death and
the other los Muertos and bullfighting
all these topics that could not be
harder to make in a movie and again I
could not have done this by myself it
took someone like Janna Thoreau a
filmmaker who no one of that stature
looked for first-time directors like me
and decides to give him a shot and so I
owe ya know everything and he said the
reason I'm gonna help you is because I
think one day you're gonna help others
and so you have to pass this down and
obviously I'm not quite there you have
to be able to help others that much but
I'm sure it's all gonna try and so we
made book of life and book of life was
the film with the largest Hispanic cast
in the history of animation every every
studio every single studio said you
can't make a movie about Latinos you
can't make a movie with a subject matter
there's no audience for this and so the
more times people would say no like they
kept closing door on us at every place
and I got to the point where we could we
could smell the door and go oh that's
oak this is a good place we gotta we
gotta come back here and so eventually
20th Century Fox and real effects took a
chance on our movie and and we made the
book of life and the the biggest lesson
I got from it was in order for you to
make something that resonates it should
always come from an honest place I
surely believe that we live in a world
full of cynicism and there's so much
sort of looking down on emotion and so
as Latinos we could not be more
emotional we could not be more
passionate and I really believe that if
the work we do is work that's coming
from a real place and I work that's full
of heart then it's bulletproof
no one can pare it down
so thank you guys for this this is a I
will use this as a as a sign that I'm on
the right path
that our community of Latinos is hugging
me and giving me strength to continue
and I will use it as a weapon to
continue to smash those doors down and
keep going thank you